---
title: "Sponsors, coaching companies and supporting organizers"
layout: post
created_at: Wed Mar 11 2014
permalink: blog/2014
current: blog
author: Sara
twitter: RailsGirlsSoc
---


Rails Girls Summer of Code 2013 was a resounding success!

We had over 30 students working on Open Source projects over the summer, most
on a full-time basis, sponsored by the community and our company sponsors. A
significant amount of those students went on to present at conferences, and
meetups, as well as moved onto their own coding projects!

Preparations for this year's instalment of SoC have begun, and we’re looking
for companies to support this incredible program in 2014.

This year we have three options for companies to join and support the program;
as Sponsors, Coaching companies and/or in financially supporting organizers.

## 1. Sponsors

While our fundraising campaign will officially begin on [date], sponsors who
sign up early will get a significant amount of exposure, and publicity.

Sponsors are listed on the site not only according to the size of their
donation, but also their sign up date. Our sponsorship packages will remain the
same as they were in 2013, giving you the opportunity to choose your desired
package early! Take a look at last year's packages [here].

Sponsor logos will be listed and linked via the Rails Girls Summer of Code
homepage and on the dedicated 'Sponsors' page, with a blurb text that you are
free to choose.

Other perks of sponsorship include: getting your swag in goody bags which are
sent out to our student teams, your logo on students’ slides at conference
talks, mentions in our press kit and newsletters, blog posts dedicated to
sponsors, lots of tweet love from the community ... and Konstantin Haase
wearing your T-shirt and mentioning you as a sponsor at a conference.

Want to be one of our early-bird sponsors? Get in touch with us: [email?]

## 2. Coaching companies

Some of last year's most successful student teams have been supported greatly
by local ‘coaching companies’, who have given them a place to work in their
offices and a pool of coaches to help them. We are looking to formalize this
support into an option for interested companies this year.

A great examples from 2013 is SoundCloud, who sponsored SoC, and provided
coaching resource for one student team at their Berlin developer office.

Their developers were put into a coaching pool and alloted a certain amount of
time to coach the students. Students presented their work during company
meetings, and met with other staff members during lunch breaks. There were a
number of other companies who provided similar setups with great success, too.

Some companies have policy in place to allow developers to work on Open Source,
or other beneficial projects, during business hours. If you do, ask your team
if they'd be interested in coaching a team of two students onsite.

There's one condition to this option: Students CANNOT be picked upfront.

Student applications will be rated based on the set criteria, and the best
ranked applications will be selected. However, you can greatly improve your
team's chances of winning a sponsored seat by helping them prepare an
outstanding application.

If you have the ability to be a 'Coaching Company' we'd love to hear from you:
[email?]

## 3. Supporting organizers

A mammoth amount of work  goes into organizing Rails Girls Summer of Code, and
a vast majority of it is done by volunteers. With the program set to grow in
2014, we would like to provide at least one paid position for an SoC Orga Team
Member to dedicate themselves to Summer of Code organizational activities.

A great example of financially supporting organizers is Travis CI, which
supports Rails Girls Summer of Code by paying Anika Lindtner to work on the
program, through the Travis Foundation.

The sponsored organizer will have displayed a track record of reliability and
honesty, and will be vetted to ensure they will make terrific use of a paid
position.

If you are interested in this new initiative, then please get in touch:
[email?]


